Every year for the last seven-eight years, at the year end,
I tell you
which are the best insurance and best mutual funds for
the next year and so if you are thinking of
buying fresh insurance or investing in mutual funds, then
this has been a ritual for many years now.  If you trust
me then it is my
responsibility not to just
reveal the name.  I just don't give a tip like it should be
infinitive and educative.  And so step
by step in this video we will see on
what basis I and my team
analyze and
eliminate health insurance.  Why did we choose each step
?  What was the region?
Why did you choose the benchmark you did?  Why were policies or companies
eliminated?  Everything is absolutely
transparent.  Look, now
you
can agree or disagree with our steps, benchmarks and results.  I have never
tried to create a cult that whatever
I say is right.  I am
happy if there are healthy discussions and disagreements in the comments
, I also get to learn.
But I think you should know
what are the filters parameters
we are using transparently and then if you don't agree if you
disagree and you have a
better option or our team has missed something then it's
great.  I don't want you to be
my blind follower.  He
is never objective.  Yes, now because we have
experience and in a professional setup
we analyse companies like health
insurance and life insurance.  So what
happens is that 90-95% of us will
choose the best or better product.  It's a
result of the process.  We do very well.  it's not like that at all.
But over the years the
process gets refined.  Now there's one more thing before I delve
into the exact
steps.  And this is something I've been meaning to talk about for a long time.  I
think if it is coming to my mind now then it is the
right time.  On Brand Collapse and
Sponsorships.  You may have noticed that I don't do
much.  It's not that I don't want to do it,
but
most brands don't like my conditions.
First, if you want to do any kind of
branded content with us, then our research
or my opinion cannot be affected at all.
I will say whatever I want to say.
If you still want to be associated, you can be
associated.  But you cannot say
that raise this policy, raise that policy.
Our editorial results cannot be
affected by your advertisement.  These two
things are completely different.  Most brands are eliminated on this first condition itself.
Step number two I will always tell my people
with a banner that this video contains
sponsored content.  This disclosure
thing makes many brands disappear.  They
want me to talk about them without
telling you guys that I got paid for narrating some parts of the video,
speaking about it or promoting that brand.
Want to hide this.  And that's not acceptable.  And
thirdly, and this is also something that many people often ignore, if you are a
product
manufacturer, like if you are an insurance
manufacturer, you are a life insurance,
health insurance company
like HDFC, ICICI, Axis, then I will
not collaborate with you.  Because if
you tell me directly or indirectly or you can tell me to
declare my insurance as the best in your results, then I will not do it.  Similarly,
in mutual funds, if you are an AMC, a
mutual fund manufacturer, then I will
not collaborate with you.  I am
comfortable if you are a platform that
gives me variety so that I
can invest in any of them.  And I will use that platform only
when I feel trusted and
comfortable with it.  So as I have been talking for many years
that I use Zerodha
for my investing.  Maybe I don't know I have been doing it for
8-9 years.  Now
I'm not getting paid to say this,
but I do it.  So if tomorrow they
give me money to say the same thing, then I will take it
because I am saying the same thing even without money.
So as long as your
money doesn't affect my research, my opinion, my
disclosures.
And I trust and I am comfortable
with that platform.  So I will.
Similarly, we have collaborated with Ditto in this video.
Because I really feel
that he helps me well.  Provides
a little unbiased spam free consultation of a common man.
People get helped.
Now if I am getting a collaboration on this then
I am happy to do it.  Even if they don't.
And I have probably told him many times
that even if you don't give me money,
I will still praise you because you are doing
good work.  So if there is
such a brand then it is fine with me.
But after hearing these three or four conditions that I mentioned,
I do not have any exact data.
But I think
99 out of 100 brands just run away.  So I am
not saying this to become great.
I think I am saying this
so that you can be assured that the
elimination parameters used in this video are
completely unbiased.  No
one will be able to affect him today or ever in the future.
Our research and editorial content
is always unbiased and it will always remain that way and we don't care about
how our industry contacts are getting
better, better or worse because of it.
Anyway, we work sitting in Raipur.
Mumbai, Delhi, Bor are so
far away.  It sort of creates a
protective shield around us.  That
big people are not coming to meet us every day.  They are
not giving us incentives for our
product, I am already away from industry networking events and
meetings.  How much will I
travel?  So I think that also
helps.  Sometimes I don't blabber at all.
But I make videos with all my heart.  There are
not many such written scripts.  And
I like talking to you.  I enjoy
reading the comments, it's like a community.
And as long as the community is like this, it is
not a cult, then I am happy.  So I
enjoy talking to you sometimes without a script.
Well let's come to the topic.
So let's select the
best health insurance for the year 2026 step by step.
Step One Claim Settlement Ratio.
Most of you might know this, but let me tell you that
it basically tells that
if a company receives 100 claims, then in how
many of them did the company pay the money.  Now the
industry average is around 91%.  Good
companies and bad companies together
pay money in 91% of claims out of 100.  But
we did not have to do it on a one year basis.  Sometimes the
yearly performance may fluctuate, if it
performs exceptionally in some year,
we may recommend it on that basis.  So we have
taken the average of 4 years and we have
increased the benchmark so that if the industry average
is 91 then if you just go above 91 to
91.5 then we are not going to be happy.
Substantively you should be better than the industry.
So we set the benchmark
95 out of 100 claims, if you are making 95 claims
consistently in the last four years, then this is
your consistent habit, due to which you
qualify. Now when we applied this benchmark, this filter, then
10 out of 31 health insurance companies got eliminated, so one third of the work was
eliminated in the first step itself, 21 companies remained. The
next parameter we took was Incurred Claim
Ratio, this is a little less, well known.  Let me
explain this to you also.  This basically
tells the financial health of a company.  Health
insurance tells the health of the company.  This
tells you how much of the premium you would have disbursed as claims if you had taken ₹100 on an
aggregate basis in a year.
So if someone took ₹100
and distributed total claims of ₹80, then
his incurred claim ratio would be 80%.
Now see, if this ratio is more than 100 then it
is dangerous that
you have to pay more claims than the premium that is coming in, then
you will go bankrupt,
if this ratio is less than 60 then it means that you are
only concerned about your profitability and do
not have to pay claims to people and
you are becoming too stingy,
you are harassing the policy holders, when we
applied this filter that the incurred claim ratio should be
between 60 to 100, then 10 out of 21
companies were again out.  11
companies remain.  That means two third companies were eliminated through these two steps.
Now before I go to the third step, it
is important to tell you one limitation of this process that whatever I am saying, I am
saying this on the basis of research on the basis of data without knowing you or your specific needs at the MAC level.
But if you want personalized consultation
then Ditto can help you select the
best health insurance plan for you and
it is also IRDA certified.  Ditto Na
handles your entire insurance documentation process and does
not charge for it.  It's free of cost.  If
you need to make a claim, Ditto
also helps you with the entire claim settlement process.  And the most
important thing is that there are many of them who, if
you leave your name or number, will keep
calling and emailing you until
you buy a policy from them.  Thankfully, there is nothing like that.
You will
get as much consultation as you need.  You will get it free of cost.
You can take the policy whenever you want.
So if you want to book a free consultation call with Ditto,
you will
find the link in the description.  Now let's
come to the third parameter.  This is the complaints
ratio.  That means it tells that if 1000 people
bought the policy from that company, then how many
people raised some kind of complaint against
that company.  Now its
industry average is 27.  But again, we are
not satisfied that it just beats the industry average.
So we kept the benchmark more tough.
Now, by doing this,
three more companies out of the 11 were eliminated.  Now
we have eight left.  Fourth,
how big is your cashless hospital network?  Because
look, we take health insurance so that
we do not face any cash or liquidity
problem.  We should go to the hospital and the
insurer and the hospital should
settle the matter mutually.  It should not happen that I have to pay ₹4 lakh first.
Then after 2 months the
insurance company is giving it to me.  If I do
n't have Rs 1 lakh then how will I manage for 2 months
?  That's why we want health
insurance companies.  And we have given
less weightage to this in the past years.  But this year we
really consider that we should have focused more.
So this year This Factor is
Extremely For Us.  So look, the industry
is average but we insure
tie-ups with 9400 hospitals.  We again
raised the benchmark a little bit that we will only
take companies that have
tie-ups with at least 10,000 hospitals.  Now this data does
not capture pan India very well.
Because someone might have a
better hold in the Southern region.  There should be more tie ups there.
One may have geographical differences in Western.
And here, if
you
tell them your location, tehsil, district, for personalized consultation like Tinto, then they
can give you more customized consultation.  Look,
in general, we have to accept that if the
industry average is 9400 and we are taking 10,000,
taking the benchmark of 600 more hospitals, then it is better to have more hospitals.  The more
these general hospitals have
tie-ups with, the better it is.  And I think if the
number is more then the chances of pan India coverage
also increase.  If there is a
tie-up with 5000 hospitals, it may
not be spread across the country.  If it is 10,000 then the
chances of it becoming pan India increases and
because I don't know you I am making a pan
India general video.  So I had to
focus on the overall aggregate number.  So
when I took the benchmark of 10,000,
three more companies out of eight were eliminated.
We have five left.  Now look, whatever
I said till now was at the company level
that we were eliminating health insurance
manufacturers.
But now only five were left whose basic
track record, tie ups, claim settlement
ratio, incurred ratio, all these were good.  Now let us
come to the policy level, when we were
looking at the policies of these five manufacturers, on
what basis were we selecting the best policies.
So now there are some parameters that will
come on your screen one by one.  I am
telling you this very briefly.  But this
checklist will remain on your screen.  You can pause and
take a screenshot if you want.
So look, what we focused on were some of these
things.  First, there should not be a disease-wise sub-limit,
that the policy is worth Rs 10 lakh but only this much will be
given for this disease.  There should be a limit on room rent
anyway, so we don't want to
pay a small amount.  There should be some
restoration benefit so that if it is a
family floater plan, once the money is spent, it can be
restored.  Cashless
treatment is a must.  You get no claim
bonus and a good one at that.  Will you get pre and
post hospitalization for one month each or will you
pay only for the number of days someone is ill?  I will
not give the latter.  So this is not right.
Money should also be received for day care treatment.
If the waiting period for pre-existing diseases is less, we have tried to give it more weightage.
Get free annual health checkup.  Get ambulance cover once a year.
If you are providing services like hospitalization at home, then
that should also be covered,
organ donation should be covered, the maximum age limit should be as
high as possible and the grace period should also be at
least 30 days.  Now when
we did all these things, we found three such
policies which according to us are the best in their respective segments.  That
means, it will depend on your use case as to
which one you should
buy.  So the first policy and every
policy is best in different ways.  So there is
no such thing as overall best
in finance.  This is a very personalized
field and everyone has their own personal best.
We tried
to narrow down the list by generalizing as much as possible
and have come up with three results.  Now let us
talk about them.  So if you are
looking at a family floater, all the families are
covered under one plan.  So HDFC
Optima Secure is a very good plan.
Now why is this a good plan?  Why do I
like it so much?  There are some reasons for that.   For
example, there is a restore benefit in this
that your cover gets completely restored
even after multiple claims.  It
is very important in a family floater that if
multiple people in the family fall ill and
require hospitalization in the same year,
then your full cover is available
for them.  I think this is a critical factor.
Especially when we have considered all the other factors.
Both at the policy level
and at the manufacturer level.  This was a
very good differentiating factor.  There are other
benefits also which are written on your screen.
After this, if there is a chronic disease
patient then Aditya Birla's
Active One Max is a very good option for him.
Now why this?  Because there is not a single add-on
available in it.  However, this is a paid option called
Chronic Care Add On.  So from day
one it covers major conditions like
diabetes, hypertension etc. which
usually have a waiting period of three years.
So when you take this add-on in this policy,
this waiting period is removed.
So this plan is very good for those who have chronic diseases.
If someone is young
, healthy,
tech-first,
comfortable with digital transactions and is young and healthy,
then I think Acko's Platinum Health Plan is
a very good choice.  The policies
are simple, transparent, there
are no multiple variants, no confusion,
no unnecessary multiple limits.
Basically a very minimal and simple plan.
Now we come to some commonly asked
questions.  Firstly,
I am already covered by a corporate health policy at my job.
So should I
take it separately?  In my opinion, yes if you can afford it
so that every member of the entire family can be covered.  Do
n't be job dependent.  You can
increase or decrease the cover amount.  You can take add ons.   There should be
more flexibility.  Even if there is a gap in the job, there should be
coverage.  So in most
cases if you can afford it I think you should have an
individual health plan.
What should the second amount be?  Look, this is again a
very individualized personalized question.
But if I want to give a general answer, then
if you are a healthy young individual
in a tier one city then it would be around ₹1 lakh.
Minimum ₹5 lakh in tier-two tier-three cities.
If you are taking a family floater plan
covering three to four members in one city, then the minimum amount is ₹20 lakh.  It is a tier
one, tier two, tier three city, take it for ₹15 lakh.
If you are a senior citizen, then in any
case, keep a cover of more than ₹ lakh.  If you
already have a chronic condition like
diabetes, hypertension, will you
get health insurance?  Yes, I have started meeting him these days.  It has become
easier than before but it should be
completely disclosed.  Don't hide.
Nowadays, specialized plans and add-ons are also
available.  If the insurance is not giving it to you then
try one or two more places.  Do
n't give up.  You will get the plan.  And if there
is any confusion or doubt, then of course
you can consult Ditto like a reliable financial
security partner.
And now you
can also choose the language of your choice whether
you are comfortable in Hindi
or English when you consult them.  So as there
is a link in the description, when you go to their website and
type your query, you should
also type your preferred language either Hindi or English.  So
with Ditto you can book your free call.  The
link is in the description.   I
hope this video will help you
in choosing your perfect health insurance plan.  This is Pranjalal
Kamra signing off.  If you liked the video then please
like it, otherwise it is
not necessary at all.  If you are not liking it or you did
not like it then please let me know by commenting.   It will
help me to improve this process.
And if you like it, then
share it with your friends and family and help them too.  Thank
you.